**commands-**\
**ls**- list all files\
**touch**- create file\
**man**- manual of command; detailed explanation\
**cat**- display content\
**chmod**-grant permission\
**pwd**-persent working dir\
**mkdir**-make dir\
**cd**- change dir\
**df**- disk space usage on a system\
**top**- displays a list of processes that are currently running and provides information about system resource usage, including CPU, memory, and swap usage. \
**nproc**- number of processing units available to the current process or system\
**free**-  It displays information about the total amount of free and used physical and swap memory in the system, as well as the buffers and cache used by the kernel.\
**set -x** - debug mode; list commands to so that no need to write echo command\
**set -e** - exit the script when there is an error in the last command after the pipe\
**set -o** ->It allows you to view the current state of various shell options.\
**ps -ef** - details or list of process running in my system. 
**ps -ef | grep "amazon" --grep**-->  get a list of specific process or specific list\
**metadata data information**--> need to provide author name; date; what does it do\
**awk -F**--> awk is particularly useful for processing and analyzing text files and data streams\
**curl**--> curl is a command-line tool and library for transferring data with URLs. It supports a wide range of protocols, including HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, FTPS, SCP, SFTP, LDAP\
**wget**--> download the file\
**find** --> search file in dir\
**Signals**:\
**SIGHUP** (1):\
Hangup. Often used to instruct a process to reload configuration.\
**SIGINT** (2):\
Interrupt. Generated by an interrupt, typically initiated by pressing Ctrl+C.\
**SIGQUIT** (3):\
Quit. Similar to SIGINT but also generates a core dump of the process.\
**SIGILL** (4):
Illegal instruction. Indicates that the processor has detected an illegal instruction.\
**SIGTRAP** (5):\
Trace trap. Used for debugging.\
**SIGABRT** (6):\
Abort. Indicates an abnormal termination, often caused by the abort() function.\
**SIGBUS** (7):\
Bus error. Indicates a misaligned memory access.\
**SIGFPE** (8):\
Floating-point exception. Indicates an arithmetic error such as divide by zero.\
**SIGKILL** (9):\
Kill. Forceful termination of a process. Cannot be caught or ignored.\
**SIGUSR1 (10):**
User-defined signal 1. Often used by applications to perform custom actions.\
**SIGSEGV (11):**\
Segmentation fault. Indicates an invalid memory access.\
**SIGUSR2 (12):**\
User-defined signal 2. Similar to SIGUSR1.\
**SIGPIPE (13):**\
Broken pipe. Sent to a process when it attempts to write to a pipe without a process connected to the other end.\
**SIGALRM (14):**\
Alarm clock. Generated by the alarm() function.\
**SIGTERM (15):**\
Termination request. Typically used to ask a process to terminate gracefully.\
**SIGSTKFLT (16):**\
Stack fault. Indicates a stack overflow.\
**SIGCHLD (17):**\
Child status has changed. Sent to the parent process when a child process terminates or stops.\
**SIGCONT (18):**\
Continue. Causes a stopped process to continue execution.\
**SIGSTOP (19):**\
Stop. Stops a process. Cannot be caught or ignored.\
**SIGTSTP (20):**\
Terminal stop. Sent to a process when it is sent the stop signal by the user (typically Ctrl+Z).\
**SIGTTIN (21):**\
Background read from control terminal.\
**SIGTTOU (22):**\
Background write to control terminal.\
**SIGURG (23)**:\
Urgent condition on socket.\
**SIGXCPU (24):**\
CPU time limit exceeded.\
**SIGXFSZ (25):**\
File size limit exceeded.\
**SIGVTALRM (26):**\
Virtual timer expired.\
**SIGPROF (27):**\
Profiling timer expired.\
**SIGWINCH (28):**\
Window size change. Sent to a process when the terminal window size changes.\
**SIGIO (29):**
I/O now possible. Indicates that input or output is ready to be processed.\
**SIGPWR (30):**\
Power failure\
SIGSYS (31):\
Bad system call. Indicates that a process has issued a bad system call.\
kill -9 1111--> kill a specific file with PID 1111\
trap--> to trap any signal.\
Shebang- #!/bin\
difference between #!/sh and #!/bash --> previously sh also used to link with bash using linking concept but now it is linking with dash.\
There might be some syntax difference b/w bash, sh, dash, ksh but end of the all same\
Linking concept-->\
Soft link--> Soft links are files that act as pointers to the target file or directory; they contain the path name of the target file.\
Hardlink--> Hard links are additional directory entries pointing to the same inode as the target file or directory.\
date | echo "date is" --> it only prints date is because the date command provides the output in stdin format; so pipe doesnt read in stdin format\

